+++
title = "Writing example sentences for a language lesson"
languageCode = "en"
+++

Language lessons here generally begin with simple sentences that
illustrate one of the language skills outlined in the [curriculum
plan](/group/thelastlanguagetextbook/curriculum). Sentences are the
building blocks lessons are created from and we always need more. You
can get started adding sentences very easily, just follow these steps.

### Step 1: pick your lesson goal

We have broken down the different language skills for the Last Language
Textbook into a series of learning goals on these pages:

  - [Level 1 - stage 1](/en/LLT-A1-Stage1-CoverageMap)
  - [Level 1 - stage 2](/en/LLT-A1-Stage2-CoverageMap)
  - [Level 1 - stage 3](/en/LLT-A1-Stage3-CoverageMap)
  - [Level 2 - stage 1](/en/LLT-A2-Stage1-CoverageMap)
  - [Level 2 - stage 2](/en/LLT-A2-Stage2-CoverageMap)
  - [Level 2 - stage 3](/en/LLT-A2-Stage3-CoverageMap)

Take a look at some of those and pick a goal to teach.

### Step 2: pick a context for your lesson

When you have a learning goal in mind, think of what kinds of things you
want to describe or talk about, we call this the learning context. For
example, if I want to help teach the "Positions-relative (above/below,
in/out, next to, behind/in front)" learning goal from Level 2, stage 1,
I might decide to use restaurant vocabulary and say things like "The
plate is on the table." If I were working to teach different country
names I might decide to write a dialogue for two strangers at an
international conference.

Choosing a context is not required for writing good example sentences
but it can make the process much faster and easier if you have a
specific context in mind.

### Step 3: Add your sentences\!

Go back to the page above that had the learning goal you are working on.
Towards the bottom of the page there is a section called "Add example
sentences". Just click on the link in that section and start adding your
sentences to the lesson that opens. Be sure to open the "save" dialogue
on the right side and hit save when you are done. Congratulations on
making your first contribution to the Last Language Textbook\!
