+++
title = "Greetings"
languageCode = "fr"
+++

This lesson should be read along with the [attached audio
lesson](/fr/An_introduction_to_French/Lessons/Greetings/podcast1).

## Greetings - Les salutations

When talking to one's peers or to children, Salut is used as a greeting.
Its English equivalents would be hi and hey. Bonjour, literally meaning
good day, should be used for anyone else. One way of remembering these
greetings, is that they come in masculine/feminine pairs. One is upon
arrival, the other upon departure.

jour : bonjour / bonne journée matin : bonjour / bonne matinée (early in
the morning), bonne journée (early or late in the morning) après-midi :
bonjour / bon(ne) après-midi (early in the afternoon), bonne journée
(early or late in the afternoon), bonne soirée (late in the afternoon)
soir : bonjour, bonsoir / bonne soirée (early or late in the evening),
bonne nuit (very late in the evening) nuit : bonjour, bonsoir / bonne
nuit

The French never say Bon matin, They do use matinée, journée, soirée but
never use nuitée.

## Goodbye - Au revoir

In addition to being used as an informal greeting, Salut also means bye.
Again, it should only be used among friends. Another informal greeting
is ciao, an Italian word commonly used in France. Au revoir is the only
formal way to say Good-bye. If you will be meeting someone again soon,
use À bientôt or À tout à l'heure. À demain is used if you will be
seeing the person the following day.

## Vocabulary - Names

*Tu t'appelles comment ?* is used to informally ask someone for his or
her name. It is normal to just reply by stating your name, however you
may also respond with *Je m'appelle \[name\].* meaning I am called....

## How are you? - Ça va?

Listen to the [audio
lesson](/fr/An_introduction_to_French/Lessons/Greetings/podcast2) for
this section.

*Ça va?* is used to ask someone how they are doing. The phrase literally
means It goes?, referring to the body and life. A more formal way to say
this is Comment allez-vous?. You can respond by using ça va as a
statement; *Ça va.* in this case is used for I'm fine. The adverb *bien*
(/bjɛ̃/) is used to say well, and is often said both alone and as *Ça va
bien.Bien* is preceded by certain adverbs to specify the degree to which
you are well. Common phrases are *assez bien*, meaning rather well,
*très bien*, meaning very well, and *vraiment bien*, meaning really
well. The adverb *mal* (/mal/) is used to say badly. Pas ("not" /pɑ/) is
commonly added to mal to form *Pas mal.*, meaning Not bad. *Comme ci,
comme ça.*, literally translating to Like this, like that., is used to
say So, so.

To be polite, you can add merci (/mɛʁ.si/), meaning thank you, in your
responses to the questions e.g., *très bien, merci*.
