+++
title = "Make a lesson"
+++

## Picture Choice Lessons

The resources provided by Wikiotics are meant to help both teachers and
students involved with learning a language.

So far, we have built a "picture choice" lesson type (see [a sample
English lesson](/en/English_Lesson_-_Introduction)), which is a flexible
format for helping to improve a student's vocabulary and naturally
introducing basic grammar.

If you want to create a new lesson to test out the system, simply add a
new link to any existing page and save the page. When you follow the
link you will be presented with a series of options about what you want
the new page to be. Select the "picture choice lesson" and start filling
in your lesson information into the form that will appear.

The form asks for the sentences you want to teach and URIs for the
pictures you want to use to teach those sentences. You can find those
URIs by searching for flickr images through our [search
page](http://alpha.wikiotics.org/new/picture?view=flickr_search), which
will ensure that the pictures you find are licensed for use in creative
activities like this.

#### Editing

Editing of existing picture choice lessons is currently under active
development.

Each lesson page has an edit button that returns you to a view of the
lesson like the one you saw when initially composing the lesson. From
there you can rearrange in what order the individual picture choice
groups are presented to students. You can also add additional materials
to the lesson.

We are currently developing the system for replacing pictures and
sentences in existing lessons, as well as copying lessons to new pages
for translation or modification. If you want to help or learn more about
the development progress, please take a look at our [Get
Involved](/en/Get_involved) page.
