+++
title = "Welcome SCALE 9x attendees!"
languageCode = "en"
+++

We are Wikiotics, a project focused on building freely licensed
interactive language instruction and study materials that everyone can
edit and share as easy as editing a wiki.

Think of it as a free software github for language materials. Rich media
elements (pictures, audio, text) are combined in interactive lesson
templates, making new materials easy to create and existing materials
easy to break apart and remix.

The software behind this, called [ductus](http://ductus.us), is built on
top of Django and uses a version control model similar to git. It is
GPL'd software, and all the content on the site is licensed as CC-BY-SA
to encourage community sharing.

## Demo

The ductus system is capable of supporting a wide array of lesson
formats. Take a tour through the Introductory [Picture choice
lesson](/en/Introduction) for English to see one of the types we have
implemented so far.

## Contribute

As an instructional wiki project built from multimedia materials, there
are dozens of ways you can contribute to the project in addition to the
normal free software cod/test/design options.

### If you can speak

If you can speak, you can record audio for our picture choice lessons.
Having audio from a native speaker close to your age/gender/voice type
can make learning a new language many times easier so feel free to
record even for lessons that already have one or more speakers.

### If you have a camera

We have a [flickr group](http://www.flickr.com/groups/wikiotics/) that
needs your freely licensed (CC-BY or CC-BY-SA) photos. Every picture we
collect and tag there makes it easier to build high quality, beautiful
lessons about the items and situations in our lives.

## Teach people what you know

If you have ever tried to troubleshoot software or go grocery shopping
in a foreign language, you know how difficult it can be to find language
materials that explain the right terms for these common tasks. If you
know these terms, in any language, you can help people like you all over
the world by making a simple lesson on the wiki. Go ahead, [take a
look](/en/Make_a_lesson)
